## Prediction with Confidence — A General Framework for Predictive Inference

The research proposes a general framework for prediction in which a prediction is presented in the form of a distribution function, called *predictive distribution function*. This predictive distribution function is well suited for the notion of confidence subscribed in the frequentist interpretation, and it can provide meaningful answers for questions related to prediction. A general approach under this framework is formulated and illustrated by using the so-called confidence distributions (CDs). This CD-based prediction approach inherits many desirable properties of CD, including its capacity for serving as a common platform for connecting and unifying the existing procedures of predictive inference in Bayesian, fiducial and frequentist paradigms. The theory underlying the CD-based predictive distribution is developed and some related efficiency and optimality issues are addressed. Moreover, a simple yet broadly applicable Monte Carlo algorithm is proposed for the implementation of the proposed approach. This concrete algorithm together with the proposed definition and associated theoretical development produce a comprehensive statistical inference framework for prediction. Finally, the approach is applied to simulation studies, and a real project on predicting the incoming volume of application submissions to a government agency. The latter shows the applicability of the proposed approach to dependence data settings.

### Links
- [Full article](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0378375817301696): **J Shen**, M Xie, and R Liu. (2019). Prediction with confidence - A general framework for predictive inference. *Journal of Statistical Planing and Inference*, **195**: 126-140.
- [Speed presentation](/pdf/prediction_JSM2016.pdf) at 2016 Joint Statistical Meeting. 
- [Review article on confidence distribution](https://www.stat.rutgers.edu/home/mxie/RCPapers/insr.12000.pdf): M Xie, K Singh. (2013). Confidence distribution, the frequentist distribution estimator of a parameter: A review. *International Statistical Review*, **81**, 3–39.
